# Chapter 4. what are we doing with all these tests? and, refactoring

1. excessive? redundency between unit and functional? testing Django not app? trivial tests? `home_page=None` is stupid? do you actually code like this?
2. Programming is hard, tdd is there for when we are not smart. small increments stop us getting tired and lazy. a _discipline_. it doesn't come naturally.
3. testing the trivial? it's a kata, you practice it in unadverse times, so when adverse times come, even if they sneak up on you, you don't have to think about changing your behavior at a difficult time (adverse times here is when complexity arises). it's also a simple rule. when is the right time to write tests? always.

## back to testing user interactions
1. we were at the point where our functional test was passing 
2. code in stuff for your other functional tests
3. we used a few new selenium functions, all are pretty self explanatory
4. note the `any` function - built in to python, pretty neat, a _generator expression_

## not testing contants, moving to templates
1. our _lists/tests.py_ tests for specific html. you shouldn't be doing this in unit tests, you shouldn't be testing constants. to fix it create a template
2. by doing this we are _refactoring_. we are trying to improve our code without changing functionality
3. You can't refactor without testst.
4. create _lists/templates/home.html_ and put your html in it
5. change your _view.py_ to replace the HttpResponse with a `render(request, 'home.html')` (which does return an HttpResponse)
6. run your unit tests and you'll see it doesn't find the template. because we haven't registered our app yet. Do it in settings.py
7. next theres an assertion fail on the line that says the page ends with `</html>`. this is because its seeing a newline. fix it in the test and it should pass

## commit 4.1 -> 4.2: the django test client
1. now we can change our tests so they're no longer checking constant strings, just test that they're in the right template.
2. Django has an `assertTemplateUsed` function to help us. you can replace nearly all the unit test up to now with this.
3. try not to skip ahead too many steps when refactoring - that's when you break things. and especiialy keep refactor and functionality changes separate.

## commit 4.2 -> 4.3: develop our front page
1. add your header (per FT) to template. then work through the other things, testing as you go
