# chapter 5. saving user input and testing the database

1. a goal of TDD is to be 'deliberately short sighted' to allow yourself to handle one problem at a time
2. we could've jumped ahead to the solution, but we have gone step by step

## wiring up our form to send a POST request (4.3 -> 5.1)

1. to use a POST we need out element to have a `name` attribute and wrap it with a <form> tag
2. running your FT you will get a `noSuchElementException`. this is caused by Django's CSRF (cross site request forgery) protection. You need to put the `{% csrf_token %}` in your html
3. once done and run you will get a more familiar error saying the expected table row didn't appear.

## processing a POST request (4.3 -> 5.1)

1. we haven't specified an `action` attribute in our form, so it's not doing anything.
2. we want to change the `home_page` view/function so that it can deal with the POST. So we need to add a unit test.
3. in _lists/tests.pt_ add a `test_can_save_a_post_request` method. create a response with the `self.client.post` method. Then use the `response.content.decode` method to see if your expected output is in the html that's returned.
4. amend _lists/views.py_ to pass the test with a dummy value.
5. what we actually want is for our POST to be rendered on the page. again we use our jinja format to do this, putting `{{ new_item_text }}` in out table.
6. adjust the test to check whether it's still using the template. this will expected fail because of the dummy value, so we need to amend our view to return the template
7. change the view to a `render` function, which takes the request, the template, and as the third argument a dict with the stuff that should be populated in our template.
8. (this will actually fail because it breaks your render in the case there's no items. fix it with a `get` on the dict)
9. unit tests should now pass, but func test doesn't. improve your error message so you can see what the text in the row actually says, using the awesome new 3.6 fstring syntax. `f"new item didn't appear in table. Contents were:\n{table.text}"`
10. or even better, get rid of the shitty `any` stuff and use and `assertIn`, which does the verbose output for you.

## how to get rid of 'cheat' code without breaking the cycle (5.1 -> 5.2)

11. the problem is our test expects a '1:' at the start. we can 'cheat' and hardcode this into our code, to make it pass the test. this is totally fine (in fact required) under proper TDD.
12. When do you get rid of the cheat code?
13. You either do it during a refactor, or you write additional tests which would catch this. for example here we'd test adding a second item and check whether it returns 2.
14. add the new test and check that it fails

## 3 strikes and refactor (5.2 -> 5.3)

1. we've code a bad code smell in our FT: 3 almost identical code blocks checking for things in our list table. 3 is the magic number: time to refactor.
2. create a helper method `check_for_row_in_list_table`

## ORM and model (5.3 -> 5.4)

1. Object-relational mapper (ORM) is an abstraction layer for storing objects in databases.classes become tables and attributes become fields. persisted objects become rows in the tables.
2. django has a great ORM. lets write a unit test to learn about it
3. you can see we create a new object in the DB by creating it, assigning attribtes, and calling `save()`.
4. you can also see we can query the db using `objects.all()`
5. they are returned as a `QuerySet` object.
6. this test is actually pretty verbose. in real life it would be more concise than this
7. a unit test shouldn't actually touch the DB - that is more properly an _integration test_. this gets more fleshed out in C23

### first migration (5.4 -> 5.5)

1. run through the tests and fix.
	a. your first error is because you haven't created the List model class yet. _lists/models/py_
	b. then you will get an error on calling `save()` because your model doesn't inherit from models.Model
	c. next you will get an error becuase it can't find the table. this is where we get into migration
2. Migrations is a system which builds the database, based on your models.py file. it's kind of like version control for your db.
3. you need to build your first migraion `python manage.py makemigrations`, check it with `ls lists/migrations`

### model fields (5.5 -> 5.6)

1. the test will get as far as trying to test the first text
2. we need to add the fields to our model `text = models.textField()` and migrate. It will tell you to go back an create a default value, so to that
3. this should take you through your UTs

## Saving POST to DB (5.6 -> 5.7)

1. adjust the test for your post to check whether the test is saving to the database
2. amend your view to create and save an item.
3. note your test saving stuff to the DB when it shouldn't, starting to smell. lets refactor and add a new test for checking that items are only created on a valid post request
4. note we used `Item.objects.create` which is creates and saves an object

## redirect after a POST (5.7 -> 5.8)
1. the `new_item_text = ''` is ugly.
2. a view function has 2 jobs:
	a. processing user input
	b. returning appropriate response.
3. you should always redirect after a post.
4. re-write your test to check it redirects to home after post. you can get rid of the `..content` stuff since we're no longer expecting it. 
5. instead test for the redirect code and location
6. change your code to return a redirect to '/' if it's a post, and to render home.html if not.
7. your UTs should pass here

## better unit tests; test for one thing (5.8 -> 5.9)

1. multiple assertions in a test is usually a bad sign. 
2. right now if the code breaks we can't tell (easily) if it's the saving or response.
3. separate the save and redirect tests.

## render items in template (5.9 -> 5.10)

1. lets make sure the table can support multiple items - add a test for it
2. use jinja for loops in your template to get the test passing
3. to your render in your view, add a dict as the 3rd arg with the items in your DB
4. this will pass your UTs but not FTs. go to the site and you'll see a 'no such table: lists_item' error. it means you've not set up the db. The UTs only worked because you set up a test db for it.
