# Chapter 6: Improving functional tests: ensuring isolations and removing voodoo sleeps

## housekeeping (5.11 -> 6.1)

1. before we continue we want to automate the cleanup after ft runs and remove time.sleeps
2. the first is us saying we want _isolation_ between tests, i.e. one run of tests shouldn't affect another.
3. right now our FTs run against the prod database. which is obviosusly bad.
4. Django offers a solution: a `LiveServerTestCase`, which spins up a test DB
5. make a folder for you functional tests and stick your FT in it (using git mv). also creathe init file.
6. change your ft to make it use a test server by importing it and making your test inherit from it.
7. when referring to the url, use `self.live_server_url`
8. remove main, since we'll use `python manage.py test functional_tests` going forward
9. run the FTs a couple of times to check that it's doing it properly

## implicit / explicit waits, voodoo time.sleeps (6.1 -> 6.2)

1. our `time.sleep(1)` is an _explicit wait_. you can also rely on Selenium to wait until it think's it has waited long enough - but it's a bit flakey
2. `NoSuchElementException` and `StaleElementException` are symptoms of a problem with your waits
3. a third and superior option is to just write a function that just waits until the element you want is there. change your method `check_for_row_in_list_table` to `wait_for_row_in_list_table` 
4. the content of the function should be a while loop which trys to find the row, and if an assertion error (in the case the table hasn't updated yet) or a web drive exception (the _page_ hasn't loaded yet), it'll check to see if it's at a 'timeout' threshold, and if so will raise the exception.
5. we'll refactor this into a bit of a better `wait_for` helper later.
6. obviously you can get rid of the 'voodoo' `time.sleeps` now.
