# Chapter 7: working incrementally

## (6.2 -> 7.1)

### incremental design

1. right now we have one global list - obviously this is a problem
2. this chapter focuses on adapt existing code incrementally, to get from working state to working state.
3. right now our FT says something to the effect of 'Edith sees that the site has generated a unique URL for her which remembers her list'
4. what we _actually_ want is for different users to not see eachothers lists, and get their own URL. how could we do that?
5. we don't want big design up front, but thinking about design isn't banned. 
6. our MVP here is:
	a. each user can store their own list - one for now
	b. a list has several items
	c. we eed to save lists from one visit to the next - via a URL for now.
7. it sounds like we will need to store lists with their items, and give each list a URL
8. STOP THINKING ABOUT DESIGN NOW. YAGNI (you ain't gonna need it)

### REST(ish)

1. how should the user get the URL? Let's follow rest and have something like `/lists/<list identifier>` for a get, `lists/new` for a new list POST, and `lists/<list identifier>/add_item` for a new item on an existing list POST
2. our scratchpad looks like:
	a. adjust model so items are associated with different lists
	b. add unique URLs for each list
	c. add URL for creating new list via post
	d. add URL for adding a new item to an existing list via POST
3. to do this in a TDD way, we need to add a functional test, write minimal code (via unit tests)

### Regression tests

1. add a new functional test which introduces a 2nd user, gets them adding an item, and test that they get a different URL than the first one, and also don't get the first person's items.

### (7.1 -> 7.2)

2. the first place it fails is `assertRegex(edith_list_url, '/lists/.+')`, meaning we don't get the URL we're expecting. Go to your unit test and change the test for the redirect after post to the URL we are expecting (for now call it `/lists/the-only-list/'`. check that it fails
3. now you can adjust the homepage view.py to redirect to that. OK test passing. now try the functional test again and it you will see the page doesn't exist yet - because you haven't created it.
4. in fact your functional test is now failing at an earlier point than before - this is a _regression_. lets fix it by building a URL for our 1 and only list
5. in test.py create a class `ListViewTest` and method `test_displays_all_list_items` (you can copy it from test homepage) and repoint it to your new URL. This test creates a couple of dummy objects, calls the URL and checks the reponse for the objects. Again it will fail because we haven't created the url yet
6. you can also replace `assertIn` with the slightly simpler `assertContains(response, 'itemey 1')`. it returns more descriptive error too.
7. to actually create our URL we'll add it to _superlists/urls.py_. the syntax is `url(r'^pattern', module.function, name='view_name')`.
8. running your UT will give you a view not found error for `view_list`, so add it to _views.py_, just with a pass. now you'll get an error that it expected to receive an HTTPResponseObject and didn't. fix that and your UT should pass.
9. now you get an error in your FT that the 2nd item in your list is not showing up.

### (7.2 -> 7.3)

1. to debug, what's going on? The user starts at the home view, which has a POST method, but when the post the first item they get to the view_list view, which doesn't so when they post the 2nd item nothing happens.
2. we could fix by adding POST logic to our view_list view, but the code is already in the home view and anyway we would have to write new tests to fix it. Our POST request in HTML by default sends data to the same URL it's currently on, but we can tell it to post data to the 'home' view by adding `action = '/'` to the html
3. now we are back to where we were: the test multiple users function fails - the 1st item from the old list is already there when we set up the new session

## Green? refactor (7.3 -> 7.4)

1. recall that we go _red/green/refactor_. We are green, so lets refactor.
2. check through your tests with `$ grep -E "class|def" lists/tests.py`
3. you can see that `test_displays_all_items` in the home class is redundent. delete it
4. Home page doesn't need to display items anymore, it should just be an input box which lets you add items and then redirects to a view_list page. We can create a new template for the view list. add a unit test checking that the list view returns a different template. 
5. it will fail with a no template found error. so change the template in view.py. now you get a templatedoesnotexist error. so create the template
6. now it fails the find list items test becuase it's a blank html. just cp it over from th home. that should get evreything passing
7. you can also simplify your views.home_page, you don't need to render all items now
8. Your UTs should be passing but your FT will fall down on a couple of things because the second user's stuff is still showing thing from the first.

## adding a url for new list items (7.4->7.5)

1. our scratchpad looks like:
	a. adjust model so items are associated with different lists
	b. add unique URLs for each list
	c. add URL for creating new list via post
	d. add URL for adding a new item to an existing list via POST
2. we made some progress on 2, 1 looks hard. lets do 3
3. in tests, add a class for `NewListTest` testing that a new list post request posts properly, and redirects properly.
4. (also introduced the `assertRedirects` method here.
5. the redirect will fail with a 404 because we haven't created the view yet. Add it to your URL list, then when the test fails add a new list to your views (with pass) then add a rediret to you only list. the only test remaining will be the asserting the save, which is happening because there's no POST function in the view.
6. functional tests will get as far as failing when it tries to have multiple lists

## refactor to remove redundent code and tests (7.5->7.6)

1. our home page is looking a bit redundent, no one will be posting stuff on the home page. so we can remove the POST stuff and just render the homepage, and also the associated tests
2. this creates a regression in our FTs - no new items can be created because we removed the home post. we can fix that by pointing our action on our list.html and home.html to /lists/new

## adjusting our models (7.6 -> 7.7)

1. update your unit tests to include instantiating and saving a list, and assigning the list to added items as it's 'list' property
2. by incrementally adding code you should be fine up until you get an error around 'Item object has no attribute 'list' - we need to add a foreign key to our item
3. do this with `list = models.ForeignKey(List, default=None)`
4. you'll have to do a couple of makemigrations
5. you'll also get some fails in your views because the FK is not an optional field for your items. You have to add them into your view tests, and into your 'views.py' (just create a new list for now)
6. you'll get to the same place you did before in your FTs, so no regression
